### Before React:

  * we had html, css, and js.
  * Each browser had its own implementation, and each js features.
  * jQuery came out and made it easy to deal with DOM manipulation.
  * With websites becoming more interactive and large, js was becoming more used in websites, and backbone.js came out to organize these js files.
  * With jQuery, and backbone.js and Ajax. Now we were able to only load the websites html once and only make the js change the layout or request another file.
  * AngularJS was the defacto SPA in 2010.

### Declarative v. Imperative:

  * concept #1: react tells you, **DON'T** touch the DOM, i'll do it for you.
  * Imperative means to directly change individual parts of the app in response to a user event.
  * Imperative makes it difficult to see the relation between different events and edge cases.
  * React takes a more declarative approach, it tells you to declare how the app should look like, and it manipulates the DOM for you.
  * DOM manipulation is an expensive operation, because each time browsers repaint and refloat.
  * React depends on State to determine how the app should behave.

### Component Architecture:

  * React is designed around the idea of reusable components.
  * material-ui, blueprint are libraries depending the idea of reusable components.

### Unidirectional Data Flow:

  * React uses state, and components to create what is known as the virtual DOM.
  * React then converts the virtualDOM into DOM.
  * Updates to the DOM is done first to the virtual one, then these updates (batches of updates) are sent to the actual DOM.
  * Changing the State, updates the virtualDOM which in turn changes the actual DOM.
  * Data (state) only moves down the virtualDOM (tree) and never up. This restriction makes our lives easy when we debug and understand what is going on.
  * Check this link about [virtualDOM](https://programmingwithmosh.com/react/react-virtual-dom-explained/)

### UI Library:

  * React is just a UI library, and the rest is up to us.
  * it is not a framework like angular.
  * The core of react is the blueprint or the virtualDOM tree of components and their states. We have now react-native, react-vr, and react-electron which all depend on the blueprint react produces.

  * This explains why we import two react libraries when we are writing a react app:
    - `react`    : lib responsible for generating the components tree
    - `react-dom`: lib responsible for  understanding what the above lib generated in the context of a virtualDOM.