### React JS v. Browser:
  * The version of the js used in react is far more advanced than the one used inside most of our browsers.
  * For this we have babel and webpack that takes react js and convert it to what a browser could understand.
  * `create-react-app` helps with amount of configuration needed to start react project. It simply hides babel and webpack configuration.
  * babel makes sure the js in our app is understood by all the browsers.
  * Webpack is all about bundling the js files into one file.

### Class v. Function Components:

  * In class components we get access to the `state` object.
  * Functional components could have state by using new hooks api. (useEffect, useState)
  * `setState()` is what is used to change a state in a react components. This ensures the unidirectional data flow in the virtualDOM, causing react to call the render function for the components affected by such a change and send these updates to the actual dom.
  * Remember to call `super` in the component's constructor to get all the functionality of react component.
  * `setState` is Async function.

### List Of JSX elements:

  * Don't forget to add the `key` property on each JSX element that is in a list.
  * React uses this `key` to determine which element to change if one of these elements has a value that changes.

### Lifecycle methods:

  * Methods that gets called in different stages of the component's life.
  * Mounting a component means, that react rendered it for the **first** time.

### Why use components, And break ap to smaller ones??

  * Remember the usability is one of the benefits we get from react.
  * And using components also makes debugging and extending the app more easy.
  * Because each component does only one job. 

### Where to define the state:

  * We will come to that later, but keep in mind the tree structure of the components, and changing it would re render all the children.
  * Remember **the second argument** to `setState` is a callback that gets called after the state is updated.
  * React intercepts DOM events and create a synthetic event and send it to our react app.
  * Also Remember, It's **BAD PRACTICE** to rely on state inside a `setState` call like this: 
  ```javascript
  this.setState({ counter: this.state.counter + 1 })
  ```
  This has to do with the fact that React batches updates (setState calls) asynchronously, which means that if the counter is getting updated from somewhere else this could end up with unexpected behavior.

  * But if we really need to depend in state or props in our updates, this is the good way to do it and make sure we are updated the intended (previous) state:
  ```javascript
  this.setState((previousState, previousProps) => {
    // return { counter: this.state.counter + 1} replace this.state with prevState
    return { counter: previousState.counter + 1}
  });
  ```

### `this` in Javascript:

  *  when writing custom methods in class components, pay close attention to the `this` scope inside of the methods.
  * We need to bind `this` for custom methods, and it is bound to the component's class.
  * I prefer to leverage arrow function `this` context over manually binding this to custom methods. The latter is very verbose to me.
  * This Article is a great resource about [`this` in javascript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

### Why JSX ?

  * In the project `pure-react`, You will see the redundancy in the code by using `React.createElement` which is used to create html elements, pass attributes to them, and also nest another elements (the steps correspond to the three args createElement takes in).

  * And it is the same for class components (in the example I used functional components.)


### Components Lifecycle Methods:

  *